---

layout: default
title: Ecological Networks

---

# Accounting for multiple pathways in the connections among climate variability, ocean processes, and coho salmon recruitment in the Northern California Current

In this study, we investigated how multiple ecological pathways potentially link
climate and oceanographic processes to wild Oregon coho salmon (*Oncorhynchus
kisutch*) recruitment. Because pathways linking climate to population dynamics
of higher-trophic-level fish species often involve a hierarchy in which
regional-scale physical and biological processes mediate the effects of
large-scale climate variability, we used probabilistic networks to investigate
17 potential ecological pathways linking climate to salmon recruitment. 

<a href="./network-fig-1200.png"><img src="./network-fig-720.png"
alt="Ecological Network" width="565" height="320" align="left"
style="margin-bottom:20px"/></a>

We found that pathways originating with the Pacific Decadal Oscillation were the
most influential on recruitment, with the net effect being two to four times
greater than for pathways originating with the North Pacific Gyre Oscillation or
the Oceanic Ni√±o Index. Among all environmental variables, sea surface
temperature and an index of juvenile salmon prey biomass had the greatest
effects on recruitment, with a 76% chance of recruitment being equal to or below
average given that ocean temperatures were above average and a 34% chance of
recruitment being below average given that prey biomass was above average. Our
results provide evidence that shifts in climate patterns could strongly
influence recruitment simultaneously through multiple ecological pathways and
highlight the importance of quantifying cumulative effects of these pathways on
higher-trophic-level species.


**Citation**: Malick, M.J., S.P. Cox, R.M. Peterman, T.C. Wainwright, and W.T.
Peterson. 2015. Accounting for multiple pathways in the connections among
climate variability, ocean processes, and coho salmon recruitment in the
Northern California Current. Canadian Journal of Fisheries and Aquatic Sciences
72:1552-1564.
<http://doi.org/10.1139/cjfas-2014-0509> 

